gathering/uk/archive/2024/index.md, before:

---
layout: gathering
title: MathsJam Gathering 2024
---
	
This is a list of talks which will be given at the 2024 MathsJam Gathering. This list is subject to change, and will be updated after the event with more links and slides where available.

<p id="honkin-red">
<strong>PLEASE NOTE:</strong> The timings of the sessions have changed slightly from previous years - <strong>the final session on Sunday will take place after lunch and finish at 2.30pm</strong>. This is in response to feedback from attendees about the sessions starting too early on the Sunday, and this change allows us to fit in the same number of talks without cramming too much in to each session.</p>

The list of [Saturday Night Table activities]({{site.url}}/gathering/uk/archive/2024/tables) for the 2024 gathering will be updated here.

## Saturday

### Session 1a - 13:30-14:10: 

#### MathsJam Team: Welcome to MathsJam
Introduction and welcome

#### James Grime: A difficult dice game
A tricky dice game for us to try!

#### Gavan Fantom: So how does your calculator do trigonometry, anyway?
There are a number of different ways to compute sines and cosines, but most of them are intensive in their use of computational resources. We take a look at an approach that can be done without multiplication or division, as found in many calculators and low power computers.

#### Jonathan Welton: The Infinite Glass Bead Game
What happens if we take the world's oldest board game (possibly) and extend it to an infinite board? Will the game inevitably settle down, or continue chaotically forever?

#### Kirsty Fish: Who wants to be a trillionaire?
A layperson’s guide to trillionairism and how it’s something we can all achieve. Kind of. 

#### Alison Kiddle: Is that your final answer?
Earlier this year, I appeared on the tv quiz show "Who Wants to Be A Millionaire". This talk is not about that.

### Session 1b - 14:40-15:20: 

#### Paul Livesey: Solving a Competitive Programming Problem Using Maths
In this talk I will show how a problem from last year's Advent of Code Competition can be solved using what at first glance is a completely unrelated piece of 19th century geometry.

#### Tiago Hirth: Culture, Language and Maths
In 2019 I missed my first ever MathsJam, the reason, an opportunity to travel to Mozambique and take part in the Congress of Mathematics Space in Portuguese Language. While there I chased traditional board games, recreational mathematics and got to investigate a little on the awe inspiring heritage Paulus Gerdes left behind.

#### Mats Vermeeren: Athletics track geometry
There are a lot of lines on a standard 400m running track, bounding the lanes and marking the start and finish of different events. The finish line is always the same straight line. The start lines are more interesting. Some of them are staggered to account for the difference in lap length depending on the lane, others are curves. What is the mathematical description of these curves? Do the same curves occur in other places?

#### Michael Gibson: And Ninthly
Having once made the mistake of asking for a pizza to be cut into nine pieces, with hilarious consequences, I have since considered various methods of cutting a pizza equally into ninths. I will share some of these with you in this talk (methods, that is, not slices of pizza).

#### Nicole Cozens: Would you rather
Using mechanics to solve a famous student conundrum.

### Session 1c - 15:50-16:30: 

#### Peter Rowlett: 9999713179999 is prime
Peter plays around with primes and finds some with an interesting property.

#### Kevin Houston: Who was the Nicolson in the Crank-Nicolson method?
The Crank-Nicolson method is fundamental in the theory of numerically solving differential equations. But who was the Nicolson who co-originated this method? The answer may surprise you.

#### Stas Grinberg: L-systems and sharp pencils
Lindenmayer system is a formal grammar that allows you to create realistic 3-D models of plants (and pencils). I will show you both.

#### Clare Wallace: Statis-skittle Analysis
Famously, Skittles claim that every packet is unique. We know that's not true - but can we say anthing more? After a year of encouraging people to count and eat their Skittles, I have some statis-skittle claims to make (and some more Skittles to eat)

#### Robin Houston and John Read - Polyhedra inspired by a Stand-up Maths video
A few months ago, Matt Parker made a video about Robin's newly-discovered single-angle polyhedron (one whose adjacent faces meet at right-angles, except on one edge), inspiring viewers to send in their own examples of single-angle polyhedra. Meanwhile, another Matt Parker video about a different shape - discovered by computer - inspired John to play around with generating polyhedra within a unit sphere using some terrible Python code.

### Session 1d - 17:00-17:45: 

#### Sarah Denison and Tom Button: Disrupting the 'One great man narrative' in mathematics
The ‘One great man’ theory suggests that history can be explained by the impact of great men. This is the lens through which a lot of the history of mathematics is often viewed. We will present an alternative, more inclusive, perspective.

#### Sam Hansen: A Narrative Structure Game
In this talk Sam will present a new game where the audience will be asked to match narrative structures to a part of mathematical life

#### Katie Steckles: Group Theory and Rubik's Cube
Katie will share some fun things she's been playing with recently to do with the group theory behind Rubik's cube. (Don't worry if you don't know what group theory is - an explanation will be included!)

#### Bruce and Hamish (Edinburgh Mathjam Mathscot): SET Square
How to make a SET magic square.

#### Christian Lawson-Perfect: Please don't overthink this (I already have)
One of the beautiful aspects of maths is finding unexpected complexity in simple systems. I'll let you decide if this is one of those times.

#### Saturday Night Tables: Elevator pitches

## Sunday

### Session 2a - 9:30-10:10: 

#### Ayliean MacDonald: Left/Right
An interpretive dance exploration of direction and symmetry.

#### David Lyford-Tilley: It's a knockout! Stats in single elimination contests 
From the Olympics to game shows, single-elimination is a common format - but it can lead to some surprising outcomes! I will share my experience running the largest single elimination tournament in history and discuss how mathematics helped make it possible, and what can be learned from it.

#### Adam Atkinson: Second differences, and fixing things with your ears.
Sometimes listening to your customers can help fix their problems. Not to what they _say_, necessarily.

#### Karen Harris: Maths on Film
An ultra-quick overview of some beautiful, compelling -and gloriously weird- films about maths and mathematicians. And examples of mathematically-themed literature which haven't yet, but should be, made into films...

#### Matthew Scroggs: The Databet
I made an interesting dataset that resembles the alphabet!

### Session 2b - 10:40-11:20: 

#### Andrew Taylor: In Defence of IEEE Floating Point Arithmetic
The way computers do arithmetic has some surprising quirks, including a value called "minus zero" and another that's not equal to itself — but as much fun as it is to dunk on this nonsense, it's all there for a reason. Honest. Let's look at how and why compromising on the normal rules of arithmetic can actually make computers more useful

#### Sujata B Sharma: The Curious Case of the Missing Digits
The Digit Files: Uncovering the patterns and deceptions. What can we learn from digit patterns in different types of data?

#### Tom Crawford: Pokémaths
An attempt to calculate how many wild Pokémon you would expect to encounter in order to "catch 'em all" in the original games (Generation I).

#### Keisha Thompson: Venn Diagram Poetry
Share series of Venn Diagram poems linked to DARE Art residency with Opera North, University of Leeds and the National Science and Media Museum.

#### Colin Beveridge: The Search For The Holy Grail
In which Colin tries to solve the "Camelot" puzzle in HyperRogue.

### Session 2c - 11:50-12:30: 

#### Tony Mann: A surprising number
Earlier this year I read about the remarkable number TREE(3).  I was astonished that I hadn't known about this amazing number before, but talking to friends I found that others didn't know about it either.  So my talk will attempt to introduce this extraordinary integer.

#### Elizabeth Brocklebank: Authenticator Bingo
That handy little app that haunts our working lives... can we play games with Microsoft Authenticator?

#### Alexander Bolton: Covering Points with Disjoint Unit Discs
How many points must be placed in the plane so that no collection of disjoint (non-overlapping) unit discs can cover them? I will show, using the probabilistic method, that 10 points can always be covered. And I will also show a set of 45 points that cannot be covered.

#### Nettie Margolis: Interactive Probability: Moving Away from Coloured Sweets in Bags
Encouraging a better narrative in simple probability-we can be creative. 

#### Competition Results

### Session 2d - 13:30-14:30: 

#### Adam Townsend: Buying tomatoes in LA
I try to compare packs of tomatoes in a Californian supermarket and get increasingly confused

#### Matt Peperell: A peculiar property pertaining to pythagorean products
The Pythagorean identity a²+b²=c² is almost universally remembered even by those who have left geometry. But there is another more surprising property lurking in a subset of these triangles, those with integer sides.

#### Ben Handley: An irrational question
A simple, if slightly unsatisfying, answer to a surprisingly hard question.

#### Hannah Gray: More Dutch Mathematical Tourism
Another reason to visit the Netherlands - the Leiden wall equations!

#### Miles Gould: Why our maps are getting pigeonholed
Our code (which civil engineers use to plan infrastructure like power lines) had a problem - as our customers' projects got larger and more complicated, we needed more layers of geographical features than we could represent. Thankfully, the Pigeonhole Principle came to our rescue.

#### Merry Martyn: The Titanic Birthday Problem
Have you ever thought to yourself, how many of the 2,200 passengers on the Titanic shared the same birthday? What was the most popular birthday? Was there one birthday which gave passengers increased survival odds?

#### MathsJam Team: Wrap-up and thanks
Final thanks and notices

Commit message:

reference to items on the tables at the back in index.md

gathering/uk/archive/2024/index.md, after:

---
layout: gathering
title: MathsJam Gathering 2024
---
	
This is a list of talks which will be given at the 2024 MathsJam Gathering. This list is subject to change, and will be updated after the event with more links and slides where available.

<p id="honkin-red">
<strong>PLEASE NOTE:</strong> The timings of the sessions have changed slightly from previous years - <strong>the final session on Sunday will take place after lunch and finish at 2.30pm</strong>. This is in response to feedback from attendees about the sessions starting too early on the Sunday, and this change allows us to fit in the same number of talks without cramming too much in to each session.</p>

The list of [Saturday Night Table activities]({{site.url}}/gathering/uk/archive/2024/tables) for the 2024 gathering will be updated here.

The list of items and pictures of items on the [Tables at the Back]({{site.url}}/gathering/uk/archive/2024/tabt) is here.

## Saturday

### Session 1a - 13:30-14:10: 

#### MathsJam Team: Welcome to MathsJam
Introduction and welcome

#### James Grime: A difficult dice game
A tricky dice game for us to try!

#### Gavan Fantom: So how does your calculator do trigonometry, anyway?
There are a number of different ways to compute sines and cosines, but most of them are intensive in their use of computational resources. We take a look at an approach that can be done without multiplication or division, as found in many calculators and low power computers.

#### Jonathan Welton: The Infinite Glass Bead Game
What happens if we take the world's oldest board game (possibly) and extend it to an infinite board? Will the game inevitably settle down, or continue chaotically forever?

#### Kirsty Fish: Who wants to be a trillionaire?
A layperson’s guide to trillionairism and how it’s something we can all achieve. Kind of. 

#### Alison Kiddle: Is that your final answer?
Earlier this year, I appeared on the tv quiz show "Who Wants to Be A Millionaire". This talk is not about that.

### Session 1b - 14:40-15:20: 

#### Paul Livesey: Solving a Competitive Programming Problem Using Maths
In this talk I will show how a problem from last year's Advent of Code Competition can be solved using what at first glance is a completely unrelated piece of 19th century geometry.

#### Tiago Hirth: Culture, Language and Maths
In 2019 I missed my first ever MathsJam, the reason, an opportunity to travel to Mozambique and take part in the Congress of Mathematics Space in Portuguese Language. While there I chased traditional board games, recreational mathematics and got to investigate a little on the awe inspiring heritage Paulus Gerdes left behind.

#### Mats Vermeeren: Athletics track geometry
There are a lot of lines on a standard 400m running track, bounding the lanes and marking the start and finish of different events. The finish line is always the same straight line. The start lines are more interesting. Some of them are staggered to account for the difference in lap length depending on the lane, others are curves. What is the mathematical description of these curves? Do the same curves occur in other places?

#### Michael Gibson: And Ninthly
Having once made the mistake of asking for a pizza to be cut into nine pieces, with hilarious consequences, I have since considered various methods of cutting a pizza equally into ninths. I will share some of these with you in this talk (methods, that is, not slices of pizza).

#### Nicole Cozens: Would you rather
Using mechanics to solve a famous student conundrum.

### Session 1c - 15:50-16:30: 

#### Peter Rowlett: 9999713179999 is prime
Peter plays around with primes and finds some with an interesting property.

#### Kevin Houston: Who was the Nicolson in the Crank-Nicolson method?
The Crank-Nicolson method is fundamental in the theory of numerically solving differential equations. But who was the Nicolson who co-originated this method? The answer may surprise you.

#### Stas Grinberg: L-systems and sharp pencils
Lindenmayer system is a formal grammar that allows you to create realistic 3-D models of plants (and pencils). I will show you both.

#### Clare Wallace: Statis-skittle Analysis
Famously, Skittles claim that every packet is unique. We know that's not true - but can we say anthing more? After a year of encouraging people to count and eat their Skittles, I have some statis-skittle claims to make (and some more Skittles to eat)

#### Robin Houston and John Read - Polyhedra inspired by a Stand-up Maths video
A few months ago, Matt Parker made a video about Robin's newly-discovered single-angle polyhedron (one whose adjacent faces meet at right-angles, except on one edge), inspiring viewers to send in their own examples of single-angle polyhedra. Meanwhile, another Matt Parker video about a different shape - discovered by computer - inspired John to play around with generating polyhedra within a unit sphere using some terrible Python code.

### Session 1d - 17:00-17:45: 

#### Sarah Denison and Tom Button: Disrupting the 'One great man narrative' in mathematics
The ‘One great man’ theory suggests that history can be explained by the impact of great men. This is the lens through which a lot of the history of mathematics is often viewed. We will present an alternative, more inclusive, perspective.

#### Sam Hansen: A Narrative Structure Game
In this talk Sam will present a new game where the audience will be asked to match narrative structures to a part of mathematical life

#### Katie Steckles: Group Theory and Rubik's Cube
Katie will share some fun things she's been playing with recently to do with the group theory behind Rubik's cube. (Don't worry if you don't know what group theory is - an explanation will be included!)

#### Bruce and Hamish (Edinburgh Mathjam Mathscot): SET Square
How to make a SET magic square.

#### Christian Lawson-Perfect: Please don't overthink this (I already have)
One of the beautiful aspects of maths is finding unexpected complexity in simple systems. I'll let you decide if this is one of those times.

#### Saturday Night Tables: Elevator pitches

## Sunday

### Session 2a - 9:30-10:10: 

#### Ayliean MacDonald: Left/Right
An interpretive dance exploration of direction and symmetry.

#### David Lyford-Tilley: It's a knockout! Stats in single elimination contests 
From the Olympics to game shows, single-elimination is a common format - but it can lead to some surprising outcomes! I will share my experience running the largest single elimination tournament in history and discuss how mathematics helped make it possible, and what can be learned from it.

#### Adam Atkinson: Second differences, and fixing things with your ears.
Sometimes listening to your customers can help fix their problems. Not to what they _say_, necessarily.

#### Karen Harris: Maths on Film
An ultra-quick overview of some beautiful, compelling -and gloriously weird- films about maths and mathematicians. And examples of mathematically-themed literature which haven't yet, but should be, made into films...

#### Matthew Scroggs: The Databet
I made an interesting dataset that resembles the alphabet!

### Session 2b - 10:40-11:20: 

#### Andrew Taylor: In Defence of IEEE Floating Point Arithmetic
The way computers do arithmetic has some surprising quirks, including a value called "minus zero" and another that's not equal to itself — but as much fun as it is to dunk on this nonsense, it's all there for a reason. Honest. Let's look at how and why compromising on the normal rules of arithmetic can actually make computers more useful

#### Sujata B Sharma: The Curious Case of the Missing Digits
The Digit Files: Uncovering the patterns and deceptions. What can we learn from digit patterns in different types of data?

#### Tom Crawford: Pokémaths
An attempt to calculate how many wild Pokémon you would expect to encounter in order to "catch 'em all" in the original games (Generation I).

#### Keisha Thompson: Venn Diagram Poetry
Share series of Venn Diagram poems linked to DARE Art residency with Opera North, University of Leeds and the National Science and Media Museum.

#### Colin Beveridge: The Search For The Holy Grail
In which Colin tries to solve the "Camelot" puzzle in HyperRogue.

### Session 2c - 11:50-12:30: 

#### Tony Mann: A surprising number
Earlier this year I read about the remarkable number TREE(3).  I was astonished that I hadn't known about this amazing number before, but talking to friends I found that others didn't know about it either.  So my talk will attempt to introduce this extraordinary integer.

#### Elizabeth Brocklebank: Authenticator Bingo
That handy little app that haunts our working lives... can we play games with Microsoft Authenticator?

#### Alexander Bolton: Covering Points with Disjoint Unit Discs
How many points must be placed in the plane so that no collection of disjoint (non-overlapping) unit discs can cover them? I will show, using the probabilistic method, that 10 points can always be covered. And I will also show a set of 45 points that cannot be covered.

#### Nettie Margolis: Interactive Probability: Moving Away from Coloured Sweets in Bags
Encouraging a better narrative in simple probability-we can be creative. 

#### Competition Results

### Session 2d - 13:30-14:30: 

#### Adam Townsend: Buying tomatoes in LA
I try to compare packs of tomatoes in a Californian supermarket and get increasingly confused

#### Matt Peperell: A peculiar property pertaining to pythagorean products
The Pythagorean identity a²+b²=c² is almost universally remembered even by those who have left geometry. But there is another more surprising property lurking in a subset of these triangles, those with integer sides.

#### Ben Handley: An irrational question
A simple, if slightly unsatisfying, answer to a surprisingly hard question.

#### Hannah Gray: More Dutch Mathematical Tourism
Another reason to visit the Netherlands - the Leiden wall equations!

#### Miles Gould: Why our maps are getting pigeonholed
Our code (which civil engineers use to plan infrastructure like power lines) had a problem - as our customers' projects got larger and more complicated, we needed more layers of geographical features than we could represent. Thankfully, the Pigeonhole Principle came to our rescue.

#### Merry Martyn: The Titanic Birthday Problem
Have you ever thought to yourself, how many of the 2,200 passengers on the Titanic shared the same birthday? What was the most popular birthday? Was there one birthday which gave passengers increased survival odds?

#### MathsJam Team: Wrap-up and thanks
Final thanks and notices
