gathering/uk/about/index.md, before:

---
layout: gathering
title: What is MathsJam Gathering?
---

<div class='minimenu'>
<a href="https://mathsjam.com/gathering/uk/about/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</a>
<a href="https://mathsjam.com/gathering/uk/about/the-team">The Team</a>
</div>

MathsJam Gathering is a two-day event for mathematically-inclined people with an interest in problem solving and puzzles. The weekend consists of lightning talks, long breaks and plenty of chances to socialise and share your favourite maths.

Inspired by the [Gathering For Gardner](http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2008/may/31/maths.science) events, MathsJam is a chance to share, discuss, solve or be confounded by a vast array of mathematical puzzles in a friendly, informal and inspirational atmosphere. We're not looking for Earth-shattering maths, nor new discoveries, nor anything exceptionally deep or meaningful. We're looking for things that are surprising, unexpected, elegant, neat, cool, or whatever just intrigues you.

This is a distinct event from the [monthly MathsJams](/) that take place in various locations, but both forms of MathsJam are organised by the same people.

## Why you should come to the MathsJam Gathering

**Students**: By looking at problems, puzzles, games and other challenges you can gain a wealth of techniques and materials for approaching problems, both real-world and in your studies.

**Teachers**: You'll get a vast selection of stimulating starters to stretch and challenge even the most demanding students, an awareness of how to encourage the most able students to enrich their learning of mathematics, and a variety of techniques to lead students to develop their thinking skills and to question and work with others collaboratively to solve mathematical problems.

**Professionals**: Puzzles and games form a microcosm in which we can explore problem-solving techniques and analytical styles.

**Everyone else**: It should be a fun, stimulating event that let you connect, or re-connect, with your love of maths!

If you have any questions, or need more information about the event you can't find on this website, you can email <a href="mailto:gathering@mathsjam.com">gathering@mathsjam.com</a>.

## Testimonials
If you want to find out more about what MathsJam Gathering is like, you can:

- Watch [this 5 minute MathsJam trailer](https://www.youtu.be/ZM465bN_IF8)
- Read [Rachel Wright's thoughts about attending MathsJam in 2014](http://www.solipsys.co.uk/new/ANonMathematicianAtMathsJam.html?TW_20160514)
- Read [this article that Peter Rowlett wrote for MSOR Connections about MathJam 2015](https://journals.gre.ac.uk/index.php/msor/article/view/278)
- Read [this writeup from the seventh MathsJam in 2016 by Alison Kiddle](https://plus.maths.org/content/mathsjam-vii-force-awakens)

## Sign up to the mailing list
If you're happy for us to contact you about the MathsJam Gathering, you can [join our mailing list](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSceb7PpP3qU8OcrCu_g8vHV9DVhDxo85pkP0Cqw7W4Flnkh9A/viewform?usp=sf_link).

Commit message:

reorganise colours, make the minimenu part of the layout
fixes #408

The colours for the headers and the sidebar links are now set by CSS
variables, so a lot of repeated CSS rules can be removed.

The 'minimenu' nav at the top of some gathering pages is now part of the
layout: give a list of path/label pairs in the page's frontmatter.

Links in the sidebar are underlined when hovered or focused.

gathering/uk/about/index.md, after:

---
layout: gathering
title: What is MathsJam Gathering?
body_class: about
minimenu:
  - path: 'code-of-conduct/'
    label: 'Code of Conduct'
  - path: 'the-team/'
    label: 'The Team'
---

MathsJam Gathering is a two-day event for mathematically-inclined people with an interest in problem solving and puzzles. The weekend consists of lightning talks, long breaks and plenty of chances to socialise and share your favourite maths.

Inspired by the [Gathering For Gardner](http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2008/may/31/maths.science) events, MathsJam is a chance to share, discuss, solve or be confounded by a vast array of mathematical puzzles in a friendly, informal and inspirational atmosphere. We're not looking for Earth-shattering maths, nor new discoveries, nor anything exceptionally deep or meaningful. We're looking for things that are surprising, unexpected, elegant, neat, cool, or whatever just intrigues you.

This is a distinct event from the [monthly MathsJams](/) that take place in various locations, but both forms of MathsJam are organised by the same people.

## Why you should come to the MathsJam Gathering

**Students**: By looking at problems, puzzles, games and other challenges you can gain a wealth of techniques and materials for approaching problems, both real-world and in your studies.

**Teachers**: You'll get a vast selection of stimulating starters to stretch and challenge even the most demanding students, an awareness of how to encourage the most able students to enrich their learning of mathematics, and a variety of techniques to lead students to develop their thinking skills and to question and work with others collaboratively to solve mathematical problems.

**Professionals**: Puzzles and games form a microcosm in which we can explore problem-solving techniques and analytical styles.

**Everyone else**: It should be a fun, stimulating event that let you connect, or re-connect, with your love of maths!

If you have any questions, or need more information about the event you can't find on this website, you can email <a href="mailto:gathering@mathsjam.com">gathering@mathsjam.com</a>.

## Testimonials
If you want to find out more about what MathsJam Gathering is like, you can:

- Watch [this 5 minute MathsJam trailer](https://www.youtu.be/ZM465bN_IF8)
- Read [Rachel Wright's thoughts about attending MathsJam in 2014](http://www.solipsys.co.uk/new/ANonMathematicianAtMathsJam.html?TW_20160514)
- Read [this article that Peter Rowlett wrote for MSOR Connections about MathJam 2015](https://journals.gre.ac.uk/index.php/msor/article/view/278)
- Read [this writeup from the seventh MathsJam in 2016 by Alison Kiddle](https://plus.maths.org/content/mathsjam-vii-force-awakens)

## Sign up to the mailing list
If you're happy for us to contact you about the MathsJam Gathering, you can [join our mailing list](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSceb7PpP3qU8OcrCu_g8vHV9DVhDxo85pkP0Cqw7W4Flnkh9A/viewform?usp=sf_link).
