gathering/index.md, before:

---
layout: gathering
---

Registration for the 2017 gathering has opened!  It will be held on **11<sup>th</sup>-12<sup>th</sup> November**, and we are returning to our home for the past few years:

> Yarnfield Park  
> Yarnfield  
> Stone  
> Staffordshire  
> ST15 0NL  

Prices are £165.00 for a single delegate, or £250.00 for two delegate sharing a room.  Twin rooms are available.  The full package includes accommodation, all sessions, and all meals.  There is also a **10% DISCOUNT** for early-bird payments, and a further 10% discount for the unwaged. There are some additional bursaries available - email for more information.

But the first thing to do is to [sign/register up for the mailing list](http://www.solipsys.co.uk/MathsJamRegister.html).  If you want to know more, try the links on the left, or read on!

The last MathsJam gathering took place on **12<sup>th</sup>-13<sup>th</sup> November 2016**. 

The talk listings and abstracts for 2016 talks can be found on [the talks page]({{site.url}}/gathering/archive/2016), and we'll update that page with slides shortly. Talks from past gatherings are collated in [the archive]({{site.url}}/gathering/archive).

MathsJams are a chance for anyone to join the fun. We have people of all ages, backgrounds, education and ability. All you need is an interest in and enthusiasm for maths of all types.

The program includes:

* Food and accommodation
* Lightning talks
* Generous tea/coffee breaks
* Time to talk

For more information, use the links above to find out about the format, see talk titles and testimonials from previous events, or register your interest. Registering will add you to the mailing list, to be kept up-to-date with any news. Registration is free and commits you to nothing.

### A NOTE FROM COLIN WRIGHT

This is effectively a private party being organised by me. I promise I'll treat you fairly, and ask that you do the same. I promise that if you send me money then either the event will run and you'll have a place, or I'll give you your money back.

If you pay and then cancel, I will refund your money if you give me a sensible amount of notice. I will do my best to treat you fairly.

If you don't trust me, don't send me your money!

Commit message:

Added the day rates comment

gathering/index.md, after:

---
layout: gathering
---

Registration for the 2017 gathering has opened!  It will be held on **11<sup>th</sup>-12<sup>th</sup> November**, and we are returning to our home for the past few years:

> Yarnfield Park  
> Yarnfield  
> Stone  
> Staffordshire  
> ST15 0NL  

Prices are £165.00 for a single delegate, or £250.00 for two delegate sharing a room.  Twin rooms are available.  The full package includes accommodation, all sessions, and all meals.  There is also a **10% DISCOUNT** for early-bird payments, and a further 10% discount for the unwaged. There are also day rates if you can only come for one day, and there are some additional bursaries available - email for more information.

But the first thing to do is to [sign/register up for the mailing list](http://www.solipsys.co.uk/MathsJamRegister.html).  If you want to know more, try the links on the left, or read on!

The last MathsJam gathering took place on **12<sup>th</sup>-13<sup>th</sup> November 2016**. 

The talk listings and abstracts for 2016 talks can be found on [the talks page]({{site.url}}/gathering/archive/2016), and we'll update that page with slides shortly. Talks from past gatherings are collated in [the archive]({{site.url}}/gathering/archive).

MathsJams are a chance for anyone to join the fun. We have people of all ages, backgrounds, education and ability. All you need is an interest in and enthusiasm for maths of all types.

The program includes:

* Food and accommodation
* Lightning talks
* Generous tea/coffee breaks
* Time to talk

For more information, use the links above to find out about the format, see talk titles and testimonials from previous events, or register your interest. Registering will add you to the mailing list, to be kept up-to-date with any news. Registration is free and commits you to nothing.

### A NOTE FROM COLIN WRIGHT

This is effectively a private party being organised by me. I promise I'll treat you fairly, and ask that you do the same. I promise that if you send me money then either the event will run and you'll have a place, or I'll give you your money back.

If you pay and then cancel, I will refund your money if you give me a sensible amount of notice. I will do my best to treat you fairly.

If you don't trust me, don't send me your money!
