gathering/programme.md, before:

---
layout: gathering
title: MathsJam Gathering Programme
---

The MathsJam gathering takes place on a weekend in November, at Yarnfield Park, near Stone, Staffordshire. Sessions take place on Saturday afternoon and evening, when we have an informal conference dinner, and then continue on Sunday morning, finishing in the afternoon. Some delegates arrive earlier and stay longer afterwards. Each session will consist of 5 minute talks, interspersed with breaks for tea, coffee, discussion and networking. And playing with things.

The nearest train station is Stone, which is a ten minute taxi ride from the venue, and is serviced by local trains from Stoke-on-Trent and Stafford. We usually run a system of lifts from the station for conference attendees, for those travelling by train. If driving, the venue is roughly fifteen minutes from the M6 - use Junction 14 when coming from the South, and Junction 15 when coming from the North. Other routes are possible.

The full price remains unchanged from last year, &pound;165 (single)/ &pound;250 (double) with a 10% discount for early booking, 10% discount for the unwaged, and 20% for both. Single day registration is also be available.  Early-bird will close on or about September 27th - all registered delegates will receive an email in advance.

We also run several additional events during the weekend, which attendees can choose to participate in.

## Tables of Stuff
At the back of the room, we place two tables - one is for things you're happy for people to take away with them, and the other is for things you're happy for people to play with and not take away. This means attendees can bring along puzzles, handouts, toys, games, knitted items and anything else they want to share with people.

## MathsJam Baking Competition
Anyone attending the conference is welcome to enter our now-annual baking competition. Entry to the competition is free (strictly, it'll cost you one cake).

The cakes are judged by a randomly selected panel from the conference, and there are prizes for best cake, best presentation, and best maths. Any cake not required for judging purposes will be distributed among the MathsJam conference attendees.

## MathsJam Competition Competition
We also run an annual competition competition, to which attendees are invited to submit a competition in the form of an A5 photocopied sheet, in enough quantity for everyone to have a go, with a minimum font size of 18pt and a box for people to submit their entries. Any type of competition is permitted as long as it can be judged by the setter (or a winner randomly chosen from the correct entries), and a prize with a market value of less than one pound must be provided.

The competitions will be judged by a randomly selected panel from the conference, and there will be three prizes - best competition, popular vote winner (most entries) and best attempt at circumvention of the rules while still strictly sticking to the rules. The rules, in full, will be available on this website in advance of the weekend.

## Saturday Evening entertainment
Attendees will be able to [submit entries for a table](http://bit.ly/mathsjam-tables) (or other area) for the Saturday evening entertainment. A section of the conference room tables will each contain an activity, and the person proposing the activity must bring instructions, equipment and materials for attendees to learn a new thing, make something or do something fun. Proposals can range from 'Let's play game X' through to 'I will teach you how to Y'. The person proposing the activity must also be prepared to stay at their table for the whole of a pre-specified hour of the evening (starting after dinner), although activities may continue afterwards. People running tables will also get a one-minute talk slot during the day in a special lightning session to explain/advertise their activity. The submission form is at [bit.ly/mathsjam-tables](http://bit.ly/mathsjam-tables).

## MathsJamJam

On the Saturday evening we will be having a singalong where we will be singing popular songs that have been rewritten with mathematical lyrics. You are welcome to join in by submitting your mathematical version of a song or just coming along and joining in with the singing.  You’re also welcome to bring your own guitar/ukelele/grand piano/triangle and join in by playing too. 

If you are interested in having your words to a popular song sung please can you email them to [Tom Button](mailto:tomabutton@gmail.com) (preferably at least a week beforehand so we can work out a vague approximation of the chords!).

The songs will be posted to [this shared Google Doc](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B3ig4H4dsKRVbklFZDZXY0NweVk), where you can also see the songs from last year too.

Commit message:

Early bird has closed; info about rooms for Fri/Sat night

gathering/programme.md, after:

---
layout: gathering
title: MathsJam Gathering Programme
---

The MathsJam gathering takes place on a weekend in November, at Yarnfield Park, near Stone, Staffordshire. Sessions take place on Saturday afternoon and evening, when we have an informal conference dinner, and then continue on Sunday morning, finishing in the afternoon. Some delegates arrive earlier and stay longer afterwards. Each session will consist of 5 minute talks, interspersed with breaks for tea, coffee, discussion and networking. And playing with things.

The nearest train station is Stone, which is a ten minute taxi ride from the venue, and is serviced by local trains from Stoke-on-Trent and Stafford. We usually run a system of lifts from the station for conference attendees, for those travelling by train. If driving, the venue is roughly fifteen minutes from the M6 - use Junction 14 when coming from the South, and Junction 15 when coming from the North. Other routes are possible.

The full price remains unchanged from last year, &pound;165 (single)/ &pound;250 (double) with a 10% discount for early booking, 10% discount for the unwaged, and 20% for both. Single day registration is also be available.  Early-bird registration has now closed, but other discounts are still available.

Rooms are also available to book for the Friday night and Sunday night. The rate is £50 for single occupancy, £55 for double occupancy (note that these have changed) including breakfast. Rooms must be booked directly with the venue, but mention MathsJam when you book and you can make sure you get the same room throughout your stay. The kitchens are not usually open on a Sunday night, but there will, at a minimum, be soup and sandwiches available from the bar.

We also run several additional events during the weekend, which attendees can choose to participate in.

## Tables of Stuff
At the back of the room, we place two tables - one is for things you're happy for people to take away with them, and the other is for things you're happy for people to play with and not take away. This means attendees can bring along puzzles, handouts, toys, games, knitted items and anything else they want to share with people.

## MathsJam Baking Competition
Anyone attending the conference is welcome to enter our now-annual baking competition. Entry to the competition is free (strictly, it'll cost you one cake).

The cakes are judged by a randomly selected panel from the conference, and there are prizes for best cake, best presentation, and best maths. Any cake not required for judging purposes will be distributed among the MathsJam conference attendees.

## MathsJam Competition Competition
We also run an annual competition competition, to which attendees are invited to submit a competition in the form of an A5 photocopied sheet, in enough quantity for everyone to have a go, with a minimum font size of 18pt and a box for people to submit their entries. Any type of competition is permitted as long as it can be judged by the setter (or a winner randomly chosen from the correct entries), and a prize with a market value of less than one pound must be provided.

The competitions will be judged by a randomly selected panel from the conference, and there will be three prizes - best competition, popular vote winner (most entries) and best attempt at circumvention of the rules while still strictly sticking to the rules. The rules, in full, will be available on this website in advance of the weekend.

## Saturday Evening entertainment
Attendees will be able to [submit entries for a table](http://bit.ly/mathsjam-tables) (or other area) for the Saturday evening entertainment. A section of the conference room tables will each contain an activity, and the person proposing the activity must bring instructions, equipment and materials for attendees to learn a new thing, make something or do something fun. Proposals can range from 'Let's play game X' through to 'I will teach you how to Y'. The person proposing the activity must also be prepared to stay at their table for the whole of a pre-specified hour of the evening (starting after dinner), although activities may continue afterwards. People running tables will also get a one-minute talk slot during the day in a special lightning session to explain/advertise their activity. The submission form is at [bit.ly/mathsjam-tables](http://bit.ly/mathsjam-tables).

## MathsJamJam

On the Saturday evening we will be having a singalong where we will be singing popular songs that have been rewritten with mathematical lyrics. You are welcome to join in by submitting your mathematical version of a song or just coming along and joining in with the singing.  You’re also welcome to bring your own guitar/ukelele/grand piano/triangle and join in by playing too. 

If you are interested in having your words to a popular song sung please can you email them to [Tom Button](mailto:tomabutton@gmail.com) (preferably at least a week beforehand so we can work out a vague approximation of the chords!).

The songs will be posted to [this shared Google Doc](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B3ig4H4dsKRVbklFZDZXY0NweVk), where you can also see the songs from last year too.
