cities/canterbury.md, before:

---
layout: city                                           
lockdown: False
city_name: Canterbury                                                               
jam_name: Canterbury MathsJam
email: canterbury@mathsjam.com
twitter: CANMathsJam
facebook: https://www.facebook.com/canmathsjam/
organiser:
    name: Sam and Claire
    email: canterbury@mathsjam.com
location:
    group: uk-ireland
    pub_name: "The Old Gate Inn"
    description: ", on New Dover Road"
    url: https://www.vintageinn.co.uk/restaurants/south-east/theoldgateinnbridgecanterbury
    lon: 1.103098
    lat: 51.2619764
hiatus: False
hiatus_months:
    - 2022-12
    - 2023-12
    - 2024-12
    - 2025-12
changed_dates: 
    - 2022-06-20
    - 2023-01-30
jam_date_rule: fourth Monday
december_jam_date_rule: third Monday
start_time: 7.30pm in the evening
extra_text: "The pub is generally quiet and there is lots of space between tables, so we are now meeting inside. Meetings will be confirmed by email on MathsJam morning - please let us know if you're planning to come so that we can include you in the email."
---

Commit message:

update cities to use abstract links

cities/canterbury.md, after:

---
layout: city
lockdown: false
city_name: Canterbury
jam_name: Canterbury MathsJam
email: canterbury@mathsjam.com
organiser:
    name: Sam and Claire
    email: canterbury@mathsjam.com
location:
    group: uk-ireland
    pub_name: The Old Gate Inn
    description: ', on New Dover Road'
    url: https://www.vintageinn.co.uk/restaurants/south-east/theoldgateinnbridgecanterbury
    lon: 1.103098
    lat: 51.2619764
hiatus: false
hiatus_months:
    - 2022-12
    - 2023-12
    - 2024-12
    - 2025-12
changed_dates:
    - 2022-06-20
    - 2023-01-30
jam_date_rule: fourth Monday
december_jam_date_rule: third Monday
start_time: 7.30pm in the evening
extra_text: The pub is generally quiet and there is lots of space between tables,
    so we are now meeting inside. Meetings will be confirmed by email on MathsJam
    morning - please let us know if you're planning to come so that we can include
    you in the email.
links:
    twitter:
        text: '@CANMathsJam'
        url: https://twitter.com/CANMathsJam
    facebook:
        text: Facebook
        url: https://www.facebook.com/canmathsjam/

---
